**ANALYTICAL REPORT FOR DEXAL GROUP OF COMPANIES FOR THR YEAR 2023
**

The Dexal group of company's analysis report was done to analyze the performance of the company, its salespersons performance, performance by region, top performing states and the sum total of revenue generated by the company in the year 2023. The data set was gotten from Kaggle.com, was cleaned before onward analysis and visualization using Power Bi.



**OBSERVATIONS
**


The following observations where made;



1.	The month with the highest sum of revenue is June with a total of 56000 and the month of October coming very close with a total of 53000 in terms of revenue.


2.	Nancy Freehafer happens to be the salesperson that generated the highest sum in terms of revenue with a total of 104k while Jan Kotas is the salesperson with the least sum of revenue generated by a salesperson.


3.	The North having a total of 141.66k happens to be the region with the highest sum of revenue generated as against the Western region with a total of 91.25k as the region with the lowest sum of revenue generated.


4.	The credit card seats comfortably at the top of the chart as the payment type with the highest sum of revenue. This implies that more transactions were carried using the credit card as a payment type compared to other payment types.



**RECOMMENDATIONS
**

The following recommendations were made after the analysis;


1.	Regions with the least sum of revenue generated should get the attention of the management and the reasons for their low performance should be known, after which the strategies, techniques used by the other regions with the more revenues generated should be inculcated and implemented in these areas so as to improve their performance.


2.	Sales persons with the lowest sum of revenue generated should be sent on trainings and enrolled to advance courses as this will help improve their performance generally.



3.	Awards and promotions should be giving to salespersons with the highest sum of revenue generated as this will help to inculcate the spirit of competition and encourage other salespersons to aspire to become the next person to receive these benefits.



4.	The company should work on sensitizing their customers and the public, encouraging them to try and make use of other payment types aside the credit card to avoid encountering difficulties like network issues, cards not being readable by the machines etc, while carrying out transactions. 

